To use Netplay you need to pass some parameters to uqm. In future versions
you should be able to set everything you need to set from within the
game itself.

--netport1 specifies the port the bottom player will connect to or accept
    incoming connections on. If this parameter is not specified, 21837 will
    be used.
    Your firewall needs to be set up to allow TCP connections from/to
    the used port.
--nethost1 specifies the name or ip number of the host to connect to for
    the bottom player. If this parameter is not specified, UQM will
    instead accept incoming connections.
--netport2
    As --netport1, but for the top player
--nethost2
    As --nethost1, but for the top player
--netdelay
    The desired input delay (in frames). A keypress or keyrelease
    will only take effect after this many frames. The result is that while
    higher values make your ship to seem to respond more sluggishly,
    they give the keypress information more time to reach the remote party.
    If the game stutters, this is because it is waiting for this
    keypress information to arrive, which is an indication that the
    input delay is too low.
    As SuperMelee runs at 24 frames per second, each frame delayed will
    delay the input by about 42ms.
    The delay used is the maximum of the desired value for both parties.
    The default is 0. Values lower than 4 will be hardly noticable
    in terms of responsiveness.
    Future versions may automatically decide on the best value to use.

In SuperMelee, there is now an extra control method, "network control".
If you change the control method to that, and press LEFT, UQM will start
paying attention to incoming connections or try to establish an outgoing
connection, depending on the specified parameters. Pressing RIGHT will
cancel connection attempts or abort an already established connection.
You'll get a message when a connection has been established. In the mean
time you can already set up your own team.
The game won't start until both parties have confirmed the current setup.
If one player moves away from the 'Battle!' button, both parties need to
reconfirm.

